---
layout: default
---

# RISC-V双周简报 (2017-07-04)

## 通用信息

### [RV32E support for GNU toolchain/Qemu](https://groups.google.com/a/groups.riscv.org/d/msgid/sw-dev/CA%2ByXCZBevqzCeLU5p69qqp55h00gZFNdHo3ZEtyk_LcPPOH%3DCQ%40mail.gmail.com)

*sample*

RV32E的toolchain已经开始在github上review了 (by Kito Cheng)

- [github review link:gcc](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-gcc/pull/77)
- [github review link:binutils](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-binutils-gdb/pull/87)
- [github review link:newlib](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-newlib/pull/18) 
- [github review link:qemu](https://github.com/riscv/riscv-qemu/pull/61)

除了Andes以外，ETH也会针对Pulpino v2 发布 RV32E的toolchain和SDK。

### [Compatibily test group formed](https://groups.google.com/a/groups.riscv.org/d/msgid/sw-dev/36d9e3da-824d-c588-3c97-b520a0430e14%40codasip.com?utm_medium=email&utm_source=footer)

*sample*

> Hi everyone, 
> 
> based on the last RISC-V workshop in Shanghai, a new task group aiming at creating compliance test suite for RISC-V implementations was formed. 
> As a chair of this group, I would like to invite you to participate. 
> The main goals of this group for now are these:
> 
> to define the form of formal specification for compliance tests,
> to define organization of files and versioning,
> to define the form of tests themselves,
> to define suitable coverage metrics for tests,
> to clearly distinguish between verification vs. compliance.
> If you are willing to help us with these goals, do not hesitate to contact me or request the membership of Compliance TG.
> 
> by Marcela Zachariasova
> ...

### lowRISC [minion-v0.4 tutorial](http://www.lowrisc.org/docs/minion-v0.4/) is online.

### Pulpino v2 news

Frank在pulpino的mailing list里公布了Pulpino v2的一些细节，预计八月会发布。

### [glibc port1 submitted to upstream](https://groups.google.com/a/groups.riscv.org/d/msgid/sw-dev/mhng-67c86d52-9383-4720-a928-469545d399cb%40palmer-si-x1c4)

> I just submitted a glibc patch set to the upstream mailing list, and pending 
> the code reviews I hope we will make it upstream by the 2.26 release slated for 
> early August.  Darius, Andrew and I have offered to be maintainers of the port. 
> 
>   https://sourceware.org/ml/libc-alpha/2017-06/msg00622.html 
> 
> We currently also have Linux patches in progress, which have been progressing 
> well.  I hope we'll be able to make it into the 4.14 release, though 4.13 might 
> still be a possibility.  With any luck I'll be able to get through another 
> round of code review in the next week or so and then we'll see how well we're 
> doing. 

### [Linux being upstreamed](https://groups.google.com/a/groups.riscv.org/d/msgid/patches/20170614183048.11040-12-palmer%40dabbelt.com)

### [Sodor update progress in GSoC](https://codelec.github.io/gsoc/gsoc1/)

Google summer of code里，有一个project来自Fossi Foundation. Kritik 和他的mentor Stefan & Chris正在把教育用的Sodor更新到最新版。

### [Blog about chisel](http://blog.edmondcote.com/)

一个关於chisel的blog，有在学chisel的可以参考。
 
## 技术舌战

### [Cache maintenance instruction](https://groups.google.com/a/groups.riscv.org/d/msgid/isa-dev/fea83558-920d-4d62-a584-b7df5bac24aa%40groups.riscv.org?utm_medium=email&utm_source=footer)

很多人正在讨论RISC-V要不要有特定的Cache Instructions，有人认为可以不用，用syscall就好，而且使用cache instruction 會太 implementation-specific。
但也有人看法不同。Mailing list里正在激烈的讨论。

## 市场动向

### wefawef

## 微群热点

### wjeojwe

----

Editor: 黄柏玮，宋威，郭雄飞 

----

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/"><img alt="知识共享许可协议" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/2.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />本作品采用<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/">知识共享署名-相同方式共享 2.0 通用许可协议</a>进行许可。
